          Svéd-magyar szótár || Svensk-Ungersk ordbok
          ==============[ for Android ]==============


Welcome to the Swedish-Hungarian dictionary Android application.

This application is a completely offline, no-permissions-required
implementation containing all word imagery of the original dictionary.
It is just like having the original book (one thousand pages, weighing
over 1000 grams) in your pocket, only better: it does not consume any
physical space (only device storage) and you can look up words much
faster in it. You can also save bookmarks and navigate to any of them
in the blink of an eye!

Once again: all images (and OCR-ed text) constituting the dictionary's
material are part of the application; no network access is ever needed
once the app is installed on your device! This, in turn, means that
the storage requirement of the application is a bit higher than usual
(a bit less than 100 MB, however, you can move it to your SD card).
But compare that with always carrying a 1 kg brick of a mid-sized
translation dictionary with you.

The book in question is:

  Svéd-magyar szótár, második kiadás, Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, 1972.
  Főszerkesztő: Lakó György; szerkesztő: Fehér József
  (C) Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest 1969.

  Svensk-Ungersk ordbok, andra upplagan, Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, 1972.
  Huvudredaktör: György Lakó; redaktör: József Fehér
  (C) Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest 1969.


REGARDING CONTENT AND COPYRIGHT
-------------------------------

The source code of this application itself (ie. the contents of this
repository) do not contain any imagery reproduction of the dictionary.
Such imagery is obtained when the application is built, and is then
stored as part of the binary image constituting the application.

The following note appears on Project Runeberg, where the digitized
images (scanned pages) of the book are stored for archival:

  This Swedish-Hungarian dictionary was first published in 1969. The
  2nd edition from 1972 has been digitized in August 2013. The third
  edition appeared in 1980, the 4th in 1985, the 5th in 1989, and the
  6th edition in 1992. All editions contain 1024 pages. The digitized
  copy has belonged to the public library of Mjölby, Sweden.

  Project Runeberg digitizes dictionaries such as this one under the
  assumption that they are not covered by copyright for 70 years, but
  only by catalog/database protection for 15 years.

I must add that to the best of my knowledge, all print editions
contain the same content -- the physical book copy I have (a copy of
the 6th edition from 1992) has the exact same printing errors as the
2nd edition (printed 20 years earlier) digitized by Project Runeberg.
Considering the hot metal press technology this book was printed with,
it is a reasonable assumption that all editions were pressed from the
very same stereotypes.

Further information about the book is available at its page at
Project Runeberg: http://runeberg.org/svhu1972/


TROUBLESHOOTING SEARCH ERRORS
-----------------------------

The text search relies on a two-phase mechanism to locate the row to
scroll the view to. The first phase uses the page index to locate the
page of interest; this is an accurate method. The second phase
involves searching the raw OCR-ed text to find the exact position.
Naturally, in case of OCR errors, you might not get the expected
result. Since the first phase at least takes you to the correct page,
you should be in a reasonably close vicinity of the keyword you are
looking for (if it is included in the dictionary at all). Some manual
(mostly forward) scrolling should take you there.

If you find a case where the auto-scrolled position is obviously very
off, and you can locate the place that should have been shown, then
please try to locate the raw OCR text corresponding to the word.  You
can find all pages as `imagery/txt/NNNN.txt` where `NNNN` is the page
number in the original book (in the range 1..1048).  If you look in
the appropriate file, you will probably discover that the text is
garbled (bad OCR). In this case, please pull-request a corrected
version.


BUILDING THE APP
----------------

This application supports Android versions from KitKat (4.4) and up
(Android API level 19 or newer).

Caveats:

 - It is assumed that you generally know how to build an app using
   the command line tools, and have an appropriate installation of the
   Android SDK on your machine.

 - Environments other than Linux may work, but are not supported.


To be able to build the app, first you need to obtain and pre-process
the imagery as well as the raw OCR-ed text of the dictionary. Look at
the README under imagery/ and follow the instructions.

After completing the steps outlined there, you may go ahead and build
the application with Gradle. You might need to create a file named
`local.properties` first, to configure the Android SDK path,
containing a line such as the following:

sdk.dir=/home/tom/tar/android-sdk


TRIVIA
------

All 'full' dictionary pages contain exactly 108 lines (54 per column),
except one: pp.208 (page 232) has 107 lines, 54 in the first column
and 53 in the second.
